#Classic_Machine_Learnin_Biomedical_Equipment_Failure_Detection

MACHINE LEARNING MODEL DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGY

2.1. DATABASE ACQUISITION
Medical Companies have been known as the global leaders in ensuring patient´s health. In order to ensure that their services are organized and well-directed, they must have a consolidated information system. Therefore, obtaining a database regarding the historical activities of the equipment is not a major complication, as this information is available in their system. The downloaded historical database of their equipment and covered the period from January 2010 to September 2021.

2.2. PYTHON PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE DOWNLOAD AND LEARNING
To execute the programming of the ML model, Anaconda3 and subsequently Spyder had to be installed. Spyder is an IDE that supports the Python programming language. The version of Python used in this programming was 3.8.8. Once the programs were downloaded, it was necessary to understand the functioning of the Python language and, especially, the libraries that will be mentioned in chapter 3.

2.3. DATA CLEANING AND FEATURE ENGINEERING
In order to understand the database, an exploration of the data must be conducted, followed by a cleaning process. This is necessary because certain fields may contain noise, which can hinder the ML models from learning correctly. After this, a feature engineering process is performed, which involves organizing and working with the clean data to prepare it for training and evaluating the models.

2.4. GENERATION OF SUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
In order to achieve the overall objective, ML models were generated using a database that includes annotations of the types of activities performed on medical equipment. These annotations indicate whether the equipment has undergone corrective or preventive activities. With this in mind, the algorithms need to learn from a combination of descriptive variables related to the activity annotations and generate predictions based on what has been learned.

2.5. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS AND PROPOSAL OF POSSIBLE SOLUTION
An analysis of the results obtained from the different ML models is conducted, and the model that performs best in relation to the set objectives is chosen. Subsequently, based on these results, a solution is proposed regarding what healthcare entities and medical equipment providers can do to utilize the chosen model and potentially prevent unforeseen failures in their equipment.

Results and Discussion

This section will primarily focus on analyzing and understanding the results generated by the supervised machine learning models in order to draw robust conclusions about their efficiency and propose a solution for healthcare centers and medical equipment providers based on these results.

Firstly, in section 5.1, the Voting model was constructed using Logistic Regression and Random Forest models. As mentioned in the theoretical framework in chapter 1, the Voting model selects the best performing models and generates predictions based on what they have learned. Therefore, we will consider only the "Accuracy" value of the Voting model for the analysis, as theoretically, it has the highest performance among the three models.

Now, in order to have a single prediction model, we will compare the "Accuracy" of the Voting model with that of the neural network to determine which one performs better. The Voting model achieved an accuracy of 90%, while the neural network achieved 88%. Although the values are very similar, we can infer that the Voting model has better performance. With this in mind, the analysis of results will be based on the predictions of the Voting model, considering it to be the best model among those generated.

In Figure 24, we can see the confusion matrix generated by this model, where the horizontal axis represents the predictions and the vertical axis represents the actual values. For the class 0, corresponding to preventive activities (MM), the model predicted that 33,307 activities would be preventive, but 586 were misclassified. Additionally, the model missed predicting 619 preventive activities out of the actual 3,890 in the dataset. This means that the model achieved precision and recall of 84% and 85%, respectively, for preventive activities. On average, the F1-score is 84%. This indicates that the model has an 84% efficiency for the class of preventive activities, which is quite optimal.

On the other hand, for class 1, corresponding to corrective activities (MS), the model predicted that 8,448 activities would be corrective, but 619 were misclassified. Similarly, the model missed predicting 586 corrective activities out of the actual 8,415 in the dataset. This means that the model achieved precision and recall of 93% for both values for corrective activities. This indicates that the model has a 93% efficiency for the class of corrective activities.

Considering the described results, we can guarantee that the generated model has a fairly high performance in predicting the values.

Conclusion:

According to the previous results, we can conclude that the initially set objectives have been successfully achieved. Therefore, we can guarantee that Artificial Intelligence can greatly support us in various business processes, especially in the healthcare sector. With this in mind, this work has demonstrated how a supervised learning model can effectively learn from a large dataset containing historical activities of medical equipment and predict future machine activities. This will significantly benefit medical equipment providers and healthcare centers, as it allows for timely intervention and ensures the best possible medical service for patients.

Finally, although the model has proven to be quite effective, there are still several aspects that can be further improved. For example, developing a variable recognition system where the model can more specifically identify the type of equipment failure. It would also be valuable to estimate the time required for an activity when equipment failure is imminent. Additionally, exploring the possibility of associating these predictions with equipment from other manufacturers to create a more robust system for predicting equipment performance. These enhancements to the initial model open avenues for future projects aimed at refining the model and creating a powerful tool that can benefit existing healthcare systems.
